OOP is a programming paradigm that focuses on objects and their interactions.
OOP allows for the creation of reusable code through the use of classes and objects.
In Java, everything is an object, except for the primitive data types.
A class is a blueprint for creating objects, while an object is an instance of a class.
A constructor is a special method that is used to create and initialize objects.
Encapsulation is the concept of hiding the internal details of an object from the outside world.
Access modifiers (public, private, protected) are used to control the visibility of class members.
Inheritance is the concept of creating a new class from an existing class, inheriting its properties and methods.
Polymorphism is the ability of an object to take on many forms.
Java uses dynamic binding to determine which method to call at runtime, based on the actual type of the object.
The super keyword is used to call a superclass's constructor or method.
The final keyword can be used to make a class, method, or variable unchangeable.
Abstraction is the concept of focusing on the essential features of an object, while ignoring the irrelevant details.
An interface is a collection of abstract methods and constants that can be implemented by a class.
Multiple inheritance is not allowed in Java, but a class can implement multiple interfaces.
Overloading is the ability to define multiple methods with the same name but different parameters.
Overriding is the ability to define a method in a subclass with the same name and parameters as a method in the superclass.
The this keyword refers to the current object instance.
The static keyword is used to create class-level variables and methods.
A static method can be called without creating an object of the class.
A static variable is shared across all instances of a class.
The final keyword can be used to make a variable a constant.
The abstract keyword is used to create an abstract class or method, which cannot be instantiated directly.
A class can extend only one superclass, but a superclass can be extended by multiple subclasses.
The instanceof keyword is used to determine if an object is an instance of a specific class or interface.
Accessor methods are used to retrieve the value of a private variable.
Mutator methods are used to change the value of a private variable.
In Java, arrays are objects.
The length keyword is used to determine the length of an array.
A two-dimensional array is an array of arrays.
A constructor can call another constructor in the same class using the this() keyword.
The equals() method is used to compare two objects for equality.
The toString() method is used to return a string representation of an object.
The hashCode() method is used to generate a unique integer value for an object.
A static block is a block of code that is executed once when the class is loaded into memory.
The try-catch-finally statement is used to handle exceptions.
The throw keyword is used to throw an exception.
The throws keyword is used to declare that a method can throw a specific exception.
An interface can extend another interface using the extends keyword.
A class that implements an interface must provide an implementation for all of the interface's methods.
